the job dynasty is ending confucius
wants to restore
the old joe political and ritual order
the new
qin dynasty has some new ideas lord
shang is the most convenient author to
refer to as an example of this
he became the emblem of the new
political philosophy of
chin and then step three after the
collapse and end of the qin dynasty
the han dynasty has authors who
reevaluate the historical significance
of the chin
they largely evaluate it negatively
and we then have the ongoing disputes
between confucianists and legalists
as to what the future of china should be
already with these two quotations and
believe me
i have more already with these two
quotations
we see that confucius is living with the
delusion
that if only he could take over the
leadership if only he could get himself
some sort of position like prime
minister
or viceroy in government within three
years he could completely transform the
social order he could completely return
china to its former glory under the joe
dynasty
but moreover he isn't just willing to go
to job interviews
he's willing to join in armed rebellion
he's willing to join in the revolution
he's willing to support rebels who are
in a state while
they're starting a civil war
[Music]
how many of these names do you recognize
these are some of the greatest the most
important
authors political philosophers in the
history of china
and they're some of the most important
in the history of the world
and they're not just important in the
past tense they're important and
influential for more than a billion
people in china
right now they're going to be even more
important as the next 50 years of our
history unfolds
how many of these names have you heard
of and for
those of you in the audience maybe you
have a bit of background
in this area you've studied at
university
if you've heard of the names how many of
these books
have you actually read and i don't even
mean cover to cover
how many of these books have you even
read 10 pages of let's be honest now
a lot of us have read a few selected
quotations from confucius
but uh you may not have read 10 pages
there was a lecture uh here on youtube
from a university professor who began
by asking the audience how many people
had actually
heard of let alone read
han fetzer he praised his audience for
being honest because apparently almost
nobody
raised their hands and he said that
before giving the lecture
he went and checked with the library and
the library had records going back about
a hundred years
nobody had ever taken the book out of
the library nobody ever requested the
book neither in chinese
or in english translation so in the year
2020 we're going through a really
interesting period of transition
the importance of chinese political
philosophy
is recognized everywhere and again not
just its importance
historically or retrospectively its
importance
here and now and for the future this is
still
providing not just the vocabulary of
chinese political debate it's not just
providing references
in chinese political discussions it
really is in a meaningful
sense part and parcel of ongoing
political discourse political
philosophizing
in the people's republic of china and in
places like singapore
hong kong and taiwan everyone recognizes
the importance of this corpus of
literature but nobody reads it
nobody in english reads that nobody in
french german
nobody in the western world has been
paying attention to this literature
while at the same time we've all been
recognizing its tremendous importance
this is not an entirely negative
situation
the political philosophy of ancient
india
the political philosophy of medieval
thailand cambodia laos there are
myriad cultures all over the world that
actually do have
written records at least going back
several centuries they have their own
written history their own
written political philosophy political
discourse and that's being completely
ignored and nobody recognizes the
importance
of it at all so we're going through a
period of transition now the modern west
recognizes the importance of these
things but as ignore them
and we're going to shift to recognizing
the importance of these things
and not ignore them so here we get into
our first problem
ancient grace has left us relatively
few authors with relatively few pages
extant
concerning politics or political
philosophy
there are just a few famous names that
are studied by a small
elite within our society but we all
recognize their importance
some of you may complain that
aristotle's politics
in fact has a great many pages uh the
history written by thucydides
has a great many pages yes but if you
read those
two books you've read pretty much the
majority of what there is to read on
politics of the ancient world
yeah there are a few other few other
ancient greek authors i can shout out
here
but it doesn't add up to all that much
when we shift to ancient china
we're talking about mountains of
manuscripts
huge amounts of text from a long
list of many different named authors the
good news is
that this huge quantity and this huge
diversity
of ancient chinese political texts fits
into
a simple historical narrative now you
should always be suspicious of simple
historical narratives
they tend to be both overly simplistic
and to reflect the impulse of modern
readers to want to simplify history
and there's some truth to that
nevertheless it's very useful and kind
of reassuring that we can all keep our
own sanity as we wade into this
huge quantity and diversity of text that
there is this historical narrative
you're going to learn in just the next
couple of minutes
to help us keep straight what these
texts were what their
political significance was and indeed
what their political significance
now is because this is very much a
tradition
that is ongoing one footnote here
the bad news as noted at the bottom of
the screen a lot
of chinese popular culture a lot makes
propagandistic use of this historical
narrative
the extent to which mainstream chinese
movies
misrepresent misinterpret
wildly reinvent this history it's just
kind of mind-blowing to me
and given that many children grow up
watching these films
whether you regard them as popularizing
entertainment or as
political propaganda or both because
they're both
it's very easy to see how a child who
grows up watching these movies
would as an adult have mixed
misapprehensions about who these
historical figures were
what their political significance now is
so expect controversy if you talk about
these subjects with chinese people they
may get angry at you
they may get confused and it's unlikely
to be
that their mouth pieces for communist
party propaganda
more likely they themselves have just
grown up with this kind of
popularizing mix of historical fact
and fiction bottom left corner of the
screen i've expressed this
simple historical narrative with the
utmost simplicity
in just three stages one the joe dynasty
collapses
keep in mind the joe dynasty you're
talking about
roughly 800 years of history
comparisons are odious but the collapse
of the joe dynasty would have been for
people in china at that time
an event much more significant than the
collapse of the roman empire in europe
so the collapse of the joe dynasty
step one here it was a big deal
step two the chin dynasty emerging out
of what's called the warring states
period
look all this terminology doesn't matter
it'll be on the test
if you're actually in the university you
need to know the term warning states
parade the chin dynasty changes
everything
for better or worse and then step three
the han dynasty reflects on and debates
those changes
thereafter is this the whole story of
course not you could start the story
earlier with the rise of the joe dynasty
but this is it in three simple stages
while the joe dynasty is declining
confucius is an ultra conservative
trying to return
to joe era tradition politically
his side lost every other side was
really talking about significant
innovations following after the collapse
of the joe
the other major authors didn't want to
idealize the past
or at least not to the same ludicrous
extent
that confucius wanted to this is only
slightly more complex
than the three-step timeline i've
presented you with before
the job dynasty is ending confucius
wants to restore the old joe political
and ritual order
the new qin dynasty has some new ideas
lord shang is the most convenient author
to refer to as an example of this
he became the emblem of the new
political philosophy
of chin and then step three after the
collapse and end of the qin dynasty
the han dynasty has authors who
re-evaluate the historical significance
of the chin
they largely evaluate it negatively
and we then have the ongoing disputes
between confucianists and legalists
as to what the future of china should be
comparisons are odious but comparisons
can be quite useful
i remember just a few years ago when i
was teaching my girlfriend
the history of ancient greece and we
read through the major political
philosophers that have come down to us
extant from ancient athens i similarly
summarized the political history of that
period and you see here a timeline
whether you think of it as
complex or simplistic showing that you
really can't understand who these major
authors are
socrates plato thucydides xenophon
herodotus
just by considering which war it was
they were born
during which war was they fought in
which wars they were too young or too
old to really appreciate the
significance of there's this one period
where athens is at war with persia
there's this other period where they're
at war with sparta and then we get into
this kind of twilight of athenian
democracy
where increasingly it is rome that is
the center
of political debate and the concern of
historians and philosophers
and the significance of athens begins to
disappear at least in the written
record of history right here wrongly if
you were to ask me
why does anyone read aristotle why do
people still read the ancient greeks
the most honest answer i could give you
is because
they have to and if you were to ask me
why do people remain
ignorant of the political philosophy of
ancient china
my answer is because they can
people tend to remain as ignorant of
things
as they possibly can be this is part of
the tragedy of human nature
there is definitely pressure on us to
know
aristotle who could possibly get through
life even someone like bill clinton
he would at least have to be able to
fake his way through an interview
pretending that he's read and understood
aristotle's significance for
the development of modern democracy out
of its ancient roots and athens and so
on and so forth
um it is true that these chinese sources
are lacking
that kind of impetus of guilt that in
order to be a sophisticated person in
the 21st century you've just gotta read
aristotle
but there's also a sense in which the
chinese texts
are alienated from a great deal of our
political discourse because they show
absolutely no interest in democracy now
to be fair i actually feel there's a
similar contrast even if you look at the
texts of ancient greece
versus ancient rome there's very little
sincere interest in democracy even in an
author like cicero from ancient rome
however
many institutions within our modern
democratic
governments are completely lacking in
democracy
and i think if you just use your
imagination a little bit
you can actually see how a great deal of
china's political philosophy applies to
those institutions
universities have no democracy
no transparency no accountability they
run like
fiefdoms i suppose they run like little
miniature dictatorships
uh a great deal of what you find
discussed about the relationships within
the hierarchy of ancient china
could be applied to corporate governance
to the way universities operate
it may not apply so well to the way we
like to think of
democratic governments in the western
world and the extent to which
the philosophy is applicable to the
modern west it might be a horrifying
reminder that our societies are not as
democratic as we'd like to imagine them
they're certainly
certainly it's much less democratic than
ancient athens was topic for another
video
in ancient greece we find this contrast
between democracy
aristocracy oligarchy and of course even
these terms i'm using all of them come
straight at
aristotle the vocabulary we have to
discuss this comes out of ancient athens
in the ancient chinese texts there is
zero democracy there is
zero interest in the will of the people
no concept of participation or
representation of the people
and indeed there's a very telling
quotation from uh confucius
where he says that when government
operates properly
the common people have no opinions about
politics whatsoever if people are
talking about and voicing their opinions
of abolish
it's a sign that the government is
falling apart in ancient china
also zero interest in cross-cultural
analysis such as we see in an ancient
greek author like herodotus
for all these reasons you can certainly
have the feeling that the ancient
chinese political philosophy
has much less salience to modern
life this is a picture of cardinal ritua
one of the most important men in the
history of france and thus to some
extent
the world tell me was he a
religious figure or a political figure
would you think of him as a religious
leader or political leader
of course he was both we are raised with
the delusion
in the 21st century western world not
that religion and politics are
one thing that we forcibly separate
but that they're intrinsically and
inherently
separable and always have been that they
are two distinct
domains and always have been throughout
history and still are now
nothing could be further from the truth
this is totally untrue in the history of
the western world it's totally untrue in
ancient athens and ancient rome
it's totally untrue in medieval europe
and it's untrue in the modern world now
but it is a delusion we cling to and
when we
look into the texts of other cultures
when we look at ancient india or ancient
china
or ancient thailand or anywhere else we
tend to separate even if it's just
literally separating into different
books
on different bookshelves or different
lectures in the university that day
we tend to separate the religious from
the political
each and every one of the extant authors
we have
about politics in ancient china was also
writing about religion
there is no separation to be found
it's extremely misleading to think that
confucius wrote about religion
and not politics or that a secular
author a so-called secular author like
kanfe
wrote about politics but not religion i
can quote you long
passages from the han fates uh that are
100 percent
taoist spiritual philosophy this is just
uh
let me put it this way the idea that
confucius is not interested in politics
this could only be created and sustained
by very selective quotation and
concealment of about 90 percent of the
text
and the idea that han fei is not
interested in religion likewise would
involve a great deal of cherry picking
and sleight of hand and now you get this
disclaimer at the bottom of the screen
in yellow that i don't want to talk
about about
how it's some kind of terrible mistake
to separate this corpus of ancient
chinese political attacks
into taoism confucianism and legalism
one of the reasons why that is a mistake
is that it creates this pleasing
illusion that somehow
confucius was a religious leader but not
a political leader
and that some of the other authors were
political leaders but not religious
leaders and that
that's really misleading and dangerous
and wrong however
i do understand why people wanted to
create this category of the
legalists some people call them the
realists
because for one thing every single one
of them
was openly a vicious critic of confucius
and the confucianist so there's there's
tension
and you can divide the authors into
different rival
camps broadly speaking the people we
refer to as legalists
were men who had practical experience
in business in worldly affairs in
warfare
and in the actual business of the
government whereas someone like
confucius
well let me just read you this quotation
in brief de gong asked about governing
confucius said in reply simply make sure
there is sufficient food
sufficient armaments and that you have
the confidence of the common people
zigong then said if sacrificing one of
these first three things became
unavoidable
which would you sacrifice first
confucius replied
i would sacrifice the armaments zigong
said
if sacrificing one of the two remaining
things became unavoidable
which would you sacrifice next confucius
replied
i would sacrifice the food death has
always been with us
but a state cannot stand once it has
lost the confidence
of the common people to this i add the
simple observation
this sounds like the opinion of someone
who has never
experienced starvation and warfare
this is the none too subtle distinction
between confucius and people like him
and authors who are openly hostile to
confucianism
like lord shang like the author of the
han feza and the sunshine
numerous other texts broadly referred to
by modern western people as legalists
it's really easy to make this kind of um
abstract pontification about how you
know armaments
aren't really what win war and weapons
aren't really what maintains the social
order and
starving to death is no big deal
the guys who've actually been through
war
anarchy rebellion desperate terrible
struggles and who've actually
seen people starve to death or come
close to starving selves
let's just say the difference in tone
it's none too
subtle at all so contrary to this notion
that confucius is somehow a religious
rather than a political leader
i'm here emphasizing every single page
of the analytics of confucius is
political in nature
and what you see at the bottom of the
screen in yellow is the shocking but
necessary next step
where i begin to explain to you that
confucius
was indeed conspiring to take over the
government
yes i said it and yes i can back it up
first quotation here if someone would
simply employ me
confucius complains if he could simply
get a job as the
ruler basically within a single year i
could put things into some kind of order
and within three years the
transformation would be complete
section 17.5 so these are not continuous
quotations
gong shan furao was a rebel who used the
stronghold of b
to stage a revolt against the ruling g
family he summoned confucius
and the master was inclined to go zulu
was displeased and said
we have nowhere else to go that is true
but why must we go to the house of
gongshan
the master replied if i found someone to
employ me
could i not establish a new joe in the
east
already with these two quotations and
believe me
i have more already with these two
quotations
we see that confucius is living with the
delusion
that if only he could take over the
leadership if only he could get himself
some sort of position like prime
minister or viceroy in government
within three years he could completely
transform the social order he could
completely return china to its former
glory under the joe dynasty
but moreover he isn't just willing to go
to job interviews
he's willing to join in armed rebellion
he's willing to join in the revolution
he's willing to support rebels who are
in a state while
they're starting a civil war in a period
in china when there was a fair bit of
civil war going on here's a parallel
passage
vc summoned confucius and the master was
inclined to go
zulu said bc is using the city of jongmo
to stage a rebellion against his
superior how could it be acceptable for
you master to go to him
the master replied have i not also said
a gentleman is so hard that grinding
will not wear him down
so pure that dying will not stain him
black do you take me to be a bitter
gourd
content to merely hang on a string
without being eaten
confucius is telling you quite clearly
that he's not afraid to get his hands
dirty
in the various forms of rebellion war
and civil war in order to put himself
into
a position of power hugong and ee
were examples of government officials
who resigned on a point of moral
principle
their persons remain pure and their
resignations from office were well
considered
confusions concluded quote i however
am different from all of them in that i
have no preconceived notions
of what is permissible and what is not
yes indeed section 14.17
zugong asked guanzhong was not a good
person was he
when du kwan had prince joe murdered
he turned around and served his master's
murderer
as prime minister confucius replied
when guan zhong served as du kwan's
prime minister
he allowed him to become hegemon over
the other feudal lords
uniting and ordering the entire world to
this day the people continue to enjoy
the benefits of his achievements
if it were not for guanzhong we would
all be dressed like barbarians
who had conquered us confucius is
telling you quite clearly here that he
is not
afraid of moral compromise not even
engaging in murder
or not even at least shall we say
benefiting from murder
if someone else has murdered the king so
that he can be part of a faction that
takes over government
thereafter this is the end of the video
this is not my first video on the topic
and it is not going to be the last
in this video we've just barely gotten
started but i think that we have
set out all of the hooks that we're now
going to hang the coat hangers on
in shall we say reorganizing the closet
of ancient chinese political philosophy
and there's one big secret that's come
out of the closet already
people who we tend to think of as
pious well-intentioned religious leaders
like confucius
really were in their own time political
leaders
and they weren't just mediocre
conformist political leaders
they were radicals in their own way with
shocking new ideas or
even if you look at confucius as a
conservative he has shocking
conservative ideas
and they were willing to kill they were
willing to fight wars and participate in
civil wars
to advance their ideas and indeed just
their own position their own career
over the careers of others the amount of
bloodshed and torture that we're going
to get into in the videos coming up
in this series um may give you
nightmares
i don't know to what extent that's a
contrast to
ancient greece or ancient rome where
bloodshed is indeed
part of the history of democracy hashtag
spoilers
they killed socrates you don't know um
but the extent to which
all of these men were risking their
lives
in even writing down their political
philosophy and participating in the
political system of ancient china in any
way
is shocking and this will be brought
home to you
vividly as we have written descriptions
of exactly how these men were tortured
to death
for daring to step forward and from
their perspective
take on a life of self-sacrifice as
civil servants
serving the people serving the state the
stakes for ancient chinese philosophy
were very very high and not just
with the rise and fall of particular
dynasties
even during the periods that we would
describe as peaceful
the extent to which people were putting
their own lives at risk
well that is a significant contrast from
the authors of ancient greece and rome
does it matter does it matter that
confucius
volunteered to participate in these i
don't know
insurrectionary or subversive activities
against the state in his own time
of course it matters i mean the figures
we have
from ancient european history
they emerge through the fog of public
indifference
once in a while a figure like confucius
a figure like lord
shang everybody who's anybody in china
reads every word they've written
historically until quite recently people
memorized the writings of confusions
people did indeed write exams that
presumed they had memorized the writings
of confucius
the precise words confucius used even in
sarcastic remarks and insults have
become immortalized
and become part of the dna not just of
chinese culture
but particularly of chinese political
culture
there's a sense in which the smallest
details of the expressions of confucius
really do matter really are part and
parcel
of the way the chinese state is governed
in a way
that the writings of karl marx never
were
and never will be